README.md, before:

<div align="center" style="text-align: center">
<img src="images/ossu-logo.webp" alt="Open Source Society logo"/>
<h3>Open Source Society University</h3>
<p>
  Path to a free self-taught education in pre-college Math!
</p>
<p>
  <a href="https://github.com/ossu/precollege-math">
    <img alt="Open Source Society University - Pre-College Math" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/OSSU-precollege--math-blue.svg"
  ></a>
</p>
</div>

# Contents

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Community](#community)
- [Curriculum](#curriculum)
- [Code of conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Team](#team)

# Summary

The OSSU curriculum is a **complete education in pre-college math** using online materials.
It's for those who want a proper, *well-rounded* grounding in fundamental concepts
and for those who have the discipline, will, and (most importantly!) good habits to obtain this education largely on their own,
but with support from a worldwide community of fellow learners.

The courses are specifically chosen to meet the following criteria.

**Courses must**:
- Be open for enrollment
- Run regularly (ideally in self-paced format, otherwise running multiple times per year)
- Be of generally high quality in teaching materials and pedagogical principles
- Match the [curricular standards](CURRICULAR_GUIDELINES.md)

**Cost**. All or nearly all course material is available for free. However, some extra courses may charge money for assignments/tests/projects to be graded.
Note that both [Coursera](https://www.coursera.support/s/article/209819033-Apply-for-Financial-Aid-or-a-Scholarship?language=en_US) and [edX](https://courses.edx.org/financial-assistance/) offer financial aid.

Decide how much or how little to spend based on your own time and budget;
just remember that you can't purchase success!

**Process**. Students can work through the curriculum alone or in groups. Each course has a prerequisite of the previous course, so they should be done in a linear order top to bottom.

**Content policy**. If you plan on showing off some of your coursework publicly, you must share only files that you are allowed to.
*Respect the code of conduct* that you signed in the beginning of each course!

**[How to contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md)**

**[Getting help](HELP.md)** (Details about our FAQ and chatroom)

# Community

- We have a Discord server! [![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/744385009028431943.svg?label=&logo=discord&logoColor=ffffff&color=7389D8&labelColor=6A7EC2)](https://discord.gg/wuytwK5s9h) This should be your first stop to talk with other OSSU students. Why don't you introduce yourself right now? [Join the OSSU Discord](https://discord.gg/wuytwK5s9h)
- You can also interact through GitHub issues. If there is a problem with a course, or a change needs to be made to the curriculum, this is the place to start the conversation. Read more [here](CONTRIBUTING.md).
- Add **Open Source Society University** to your [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/school/11272443/) profile!

# Curriculum

Many OSSU students choose to review math topics that they have not studied recently.
OSSU recommends to use a few resources for such a review: [Professor Leonard](https://www.youtube.com/@ProfessorLeonard/playlists) for lectures, [OpenStax](https://openstax.org/subjects/math) for textbooks, and [Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/) for assesments.
After taking an assessment, you should have a clear idea of what topics to study and where you should start with the resources below.

Courses | Lectures | Textbooks | Tutoring & Assessments
:-- | :--: | :--: | :--:
Prealgebra | [Prealgebra](https://m.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4C9296DF81B9EF13) | [OpenStax Prealgebra 2e](https://openstax.org/books/prealgebra-2e/pages/1-introduction) ([PDF](https://assets.openstax.org/oscms-prodcms/media/documents/Prealgebra2e-WEB_0qbw93r.pdf)) | [Prealgebra Course Challenge](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/pre-algebra/test/xb4832e56:course-challenge)
Algebra 1 | [To The Point Math](https://m.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDesaqWTN6ETc1ZwHWijCBcZ2gOvS2tTN) | [OpenStax Elementary Algebra 2e](https://openstax.org/books/elementary-algebra-2e/pages/1-introduction) ([PDF](https://assets.openstax.org/oscms-prodcms/media/documents/ElementaryAlgebra2e-WEB_3zxfu3Z.pdf)) | [Algebra 1 Course Challenge](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/algebra/test/x2f8bb11595b61c86:course-challenge)
Algebra 2 | [Intermediate Algebra](https://m.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLC292123722B1B450) | [OpenStax Intermedia Algebra 2e](https://openstax.org/books/intermediate-algebra-2e/pages/1-introduction) ([PDF](https://assets.openstax.org/oscms-prodcms/media/documents/IntermediateAlgebra2e-WEB_RlpFLLx.pdf)) | [Algebra 2 Course Challenge](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/algebra2/test/x2ec2f6f830c9fb89:course-challenge)
Precalculus | [Precalculus - College Algebra/Trigonometry](https://m.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDesaqWTN6ESsmwELdrzhcGiRhk5DjwLP) | [OpenStax Precalulus 2e](https://openstax.org/books/precalculus-2e/pages/1-introduction-to-functions) ([PDF](https://assets.openstax.org/oscms-prodcms/media/documents/Precalculus_2e-WEB.pdf)) | [Precalculus Course Challenge](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/precalculus/test/x9e81a4f98389efdf:course-challenge)

When watching the lectures it is important that you pause before each question and work it out yourself, or try again after you understand the process.
After you complete a chapters worth of lectures, you should complete the [chapter review exercises](https://openstax.org/books/precalculus-2e/pages/1-review-exercises) found at the end of each chapter in your textbook.
Use your grade to determine what you need to review. OpenStax orders their review exercises by chapter section, allowing you to hone in on what you need to practice.
Practice what you have not mastered by:
1. Going to the proper section in your textbook and working on the examples as they have full answer explanations.
2. Rewatching Professor Leonard's video on the subject, working through the examples with him.
3. Searching [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/) for another POV on the topic, again working through the examples with them. [Khan Academy](https://www.youtube.com/@khanacademy) & [Organic Chemistry Tutor](https://www.youtube.com/@TheOrganicChemistryTutor) are great resources for this.
4. Doing the section exercises in your textbook.
5. Asking for help in the relevant [Discord channel](https://discord.com/channels/744385009028431943/744971809056751687).

## Congratulations

After completing the requirements of the curriculum above,
you have completed all the prerequisite math necessary to begin a bachelor's degree.
Congratulations!

What is next for you? You can start with the OSSU [Computer Science](https://cs.ossu.dev) or [Data Science](https://ds.ossu.dev) curriculum.

![keep learning](images/keep-learning.webp)

# Code of conduct
[OSSU's code of conduct](https://github.com/ossu/code-of-conduct).

## How to show your progress

[Fork](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-fork-a-github-repository/) the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/ossu/precollege-math) into your own GitHub account and put ✅ next to the stuff you've completed as you complete it. This can serve as your [kanban board](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kanban_board) and will be faster to implement than any other solution (giving you time to spend on the courses).

# Team

* **[Eric Douglas](https://github.com/ericdouglas)**: founder of OSSU
* **[Josh Hanson](https://github.com/joshmhanson)**: lead technical maintainer
* **[Waciuma Wanjohi](https://github.com/waciumawanjohi)**: lead academic maintainer
* **[Contributors](https://github.com/ossu/computer-science/graphs/contributors)**

Commit message:

Switch to The College Prep School (#4)
* Try out The College Prep School as our precollege math curriculum

* Change capitalization for consistency; Add more links

* Add coursepages & notes

* Fix Precalculus course link

* Change Contributors link to precollege-math

* Complete Algebra 1 coursepage

* Complete Arithmetic coursepage

* Complete Precalculus coursepage

* Complete Algebra 2 coursepage

* Complete Geometry coursepage

* Complete Pre-Algebra coursepage

* Complete Trigonometry coursepage

README.md, after:

<div align="center" style="text-align: center">
<img src="images/ossu-logo.webp" alt="Open Source Society logo"/>
<h3>Open Source Society University</h3>
<p>
  Path to a free self-taught education in pre-college Math!
</p>
<p>
  <a href="https://github.com/ossu/precollege-math">
    <img alt="Open Source Society University - Pre-College Math" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/OSSU-precollege--math-blue.svg"
  ></a>
</p>
</div>

# Contents

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Community](#community)
- [Curriculum](#curriculum)
- [Code of conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Team](#team)

# Summary

The OSSU curriculum is a **complete education in pre-college math** using online materials.
It's for those who want a proper, *well-rounded* grounding in fundamental concepts
and for those who have the discipline, will, and (most importantly!) good habits to obtain this education largely on their own,
but with support from a worldwide community of fellow learners.

The courses are specifically chosen to meet the following criteria.

**Courses must**:
- Be open for enrollment
- Run regularly (ideally in self-paced format, otherwise running multiple times per year)
- Be of generally high quality in teaching materials and pedagogical principles
- Match the [curricular standards](CURRICULAR_GUIDELINES.md)

**Cost**. All or nearly all course material is available for free. However, some extra courses may charge money for assignments/tests/projects to be graded.
Note that both [Coursera](https://www.coursera.support/s/article/209819033-Apply-for-Financial-Aid-or-a-Scholarship?language=en_US) and [edX](https://courses.edx.org/financial-assistance/) offer financial aid.

Decide how much or how little to spend based on your own time and budget;
just remember that you can't purchase success!

**Process**. Students can work through the curriculum alone or in groups. Each course has a prerequisite of the previous course, so they should be done in a linear order top to bottom.

**Content policy**. If you plan on showing off some of your coursework publicly, you must share only files that you are allowed to.
*Respect the code of conduct* that you signed in the beginning of each course!

**[How to contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md)**

**[Getting help](HELP.md)** (Details about our FAQ and chatroom)

# Community

- We have a Discord server! [![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/744385009028431943.svg?label=&logo=discord&logoColor=ffffff&color=7389D8&labelColor=6A7EC2)](https://discord.gg/wuytwK5s9h) This should be your first stop to talk with other OSSU students. Why don't you introduce yourself right now? [Join the OSSU Discord](https://discord.gg/wuytwK5s9h)
- You can also interact through GitHub issues. If there is a problem with a course, or a change needs to be made to the curriculum, this is the place to start the conversation. Read more [here](CONTRIBUTING.md).
- Add **Open Source Society University** to your [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/school/11272443/) profile!

# Curriculum

Many OSSU students choose to review math topics that they have not studied recently.
OSSU recommends using [The College Prep School](https://www.youtube.com/@thecollegeprepschool4486/playlists) for such a review.
To determine where you should start, we recommend scanning through the Final Tests for anything you may be uncomfortable with. After taking an assessment, you should have a clear idea of what topics to study and where you should start with the resources below.

Courses | Duration | Effort | Prerequisites | Assessments
:-- | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--:
[Arithmetic](/coursepages/arithmetic/README.md) | 20 Weeks | 8 hours/week | None | [Final Test](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Af-MqCJGZww&list=PLm2VEQtiYjhpTTgxTVCXVcpYWDUqiewiQ&index=39&pp=iAQB0gcJCTgDd0p55Nqk)
[Pre-Algebra](/coursepages/pre-algebra/README.md) | 14 Weeks | 6 hours/week | Arithmetic | [Final Test](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tz0VX_QfFxI&list=PLm2VEQtiYjhoZuRqvrC_dxSrwr0uexm4l&index=27&pp=iAQB)
[Algebra 1](/coursepages/algebra-1/README.md) | 19 Weeks | 8 hours/week | Pre-Algebra | [Final Test Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-RA5vtfH-qY&list=PLm2VEQtiYjhpXDka_1Q6m0x1rL5GRPMX8&index=35&t=369s&pp=iAQB0gcJCTgDd0p55Nqk), [Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lx0sDd0efSo&list=PLm2VEQtiYjhpXDka_1Q6m0x1rL5GRPMX8&index=37&pp=iAQB)
[Geometry](/coursepages/geometry/README.md) | 25 Weeks | 8 hours/week | Algebra 1 | [Final Test Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=84e6AVgYYNk&list=PLm2VEQtiYjhoXTFAF8nuN5YrAl2Muh4Nw&index=47&t=2s&pp=iAQB), [Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Aaahyp1Lh8&list=PLm2VEQtiYjhoXTFAF8nuN5YrAl2Muh4Nw&index=49&pp=iAQB0gcJCTgDd0p55Nqk)
[Algebra 2](/coursepages/algebra-2/README.md) | 28 Weeks | 8 hours/week | Algebra 1, Geometry | [Final Test](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IQYKm-0KaOE&list=PLm2VEQtiYjhoEvVOJzs8jrgFc1zXQVMiQ&index=55&pp=iAQB)
[Trigonometry](/coursepages/trigonometry/README.md) | 18 Weeks | 8 hours/week | Algebra 2 | [Final Test](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2vNzGXrgbdQ&list=PLm2VEQtiYjhofP-A_QvAoTVwWjXwU7bCc&index=35&pp=iAQB)
[Precalculus](/coursepages/precalculus/README.md) | 24 Weeks | 9 hours/week | Trigonometry | [Final Test Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OY63IBm5RpI&list=PLm2VEQtiYjhrrznuk1nQu9qJBniirGXl_&index=45&pp=iAQB0gcJCTgDd0p55Nqk), [Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aY7qINRAOvU&list=PLm2VEQtiYjhrrznuk1nQu9qJBniirGXl_&index=47&pp=iAQB)


When watching the lectures it is important that you pause before each question and work it out yourself, or try again after you understand the process.
Practice what you have not mastered by:
1. Googling and/or searching [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/) for another POV on the topic or more practice problems, working through the examples with them. [Khan Academy](https://www.youtube.com/@khanacademy), [The Organic Chemistry Tutor](https://www.youtube.com/@TheOrganicChemistryTutor), & [Professor Leonard](https://www.youtube.com/@ProfessorLeonard) are great resources for this.
2. Asking for help in the relevant [Discord channel](https://discord.com/channels/744385009028431943/744971809056751687).

## Congratulations

After completing the requirements of the curriculum above,
you have completed all the prerequisite math necessary to begin a bachelor's degree.
Congratulations!

What is next for you? You can start with the OSSU [Computer Science](https://cs.ossu.dev), [Data Science](https://ds.ossu.dev), or [Math](https://math.ossu.dev/) curriculum.

![keep learning](images/keep-learning.webp)

# Code of conduct
[OSSU's code of conduct](https://github.com/ossu/code-of-conduct).

## How to show your progress

[Fork](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-fork-a-github-repository/) the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/ossu/precollege-math) into your own GitHub account and put ✅ next to the stuff you've completed as you complete it. This can serve as your [kanban board](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kanban_board) and will be faster to implement than any other solution (giving you time to spend on the courses).

# Team

* **[Contributors](https://github.com/ossu/precollege-math/graphs/contributors)**
