coursepages/precalculus/README.md, before:

# Precalculus Course

**Topics covered**:
`polynomial long division`
`synthetic division`
`rational functions`
`nonlinear inequalities`
`conic sections`
`sequences`
`series`
`probability`
`binomial theorem`
`polar coordinates`
`symmetric functions`
`inverse functions`
`complex plane`
`function notation`
`average`
`and more`

This course was created by [The College Prep School](https://www.youtube.com/@thecollegeprepschool4486). The entirety of this course is contained in the following YouTube playlist, including all of your homework and tests. This class is also known as Math Analysis.

**Course Playlist:** <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLm2VEQtiYjhrrznuk1nQu9qJBniirGXl_>

## Instructions:

- Work through the playlist from top to bottom.
- In each video, the teacher works through a problem set, then a homework.
- When the teacher says "try this one on your own", pause the video and work it out. You do not have to do every single problem, but make sure to pay attention, learn the method to solve it, and do the ones he tells you to complete.
- Always complete the homework. If you get something wrong according to the answer key, try to see what you did wrong and redo the problem correctly.
- When you get to a review day, attempt every problem yourself then complete the homework.
- Take the tests seriously and don't cheat. Use them as a measure to see where your knowlege is at. Do not move on without feeling proficient at a topic.
- You may find a calculator useful for this course. [Desmos](https://www.desmos.com/calculator) is a good free graphing calculator.

Commit message:

Add Basic Linear Algebra (#7)
* Add Basic Linear Algebra

* Fix typo, update Precalculus duration to include basic Linear Algebra

* Add Vectors

* Make coursepage look better

coursepages/precalculus/README.md, after:

# Precalculus Course

**Topics covered**:
`polynomial long division`
`synthetic division`
`rational functions`
`nonlinear inequalities`
`conic sections`
`sequences`
`series`
`probability`
`binomial theorem`
`polar coordinates`
`symmetric functions`
`inverse functions`
`complex plane`
`function notation`
`average`
`matricies`
`determinants`
`and more`

This course is a mix between [The College Prep School](https://www.youtube.com/@thecollegeprepschool4486) and [Greene Math](https://greenemath.com/). Most of this course is contained in the following YouTube playlist, including your homework and tests. After completing the playlist you'll need to complete every topic on Greene Math under the [Matrices](https://greenemath.com/Precalculus.html#matrices-determinants) and [Vectors](https://greenemath.com/Precalculus.html#vectors) section. This class is also known as Math Analysis.

**Course Playlist:** <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLm2VEQtiYjhrrznuk1nQu9qJBniirGXl_>

**Basic Linear Algebra:**
1. <https://greenemath.com/Precalculus.html#matrices-determinants>
2. <https://greenemath.com/Precalculus.html#vectors>

## Instructions:

- Work through the playlist from top to bottom.
- In each video, the teacher works through a problem set, then a homework.
- When the teacher says "try this one on your own", pause the video and work it out. You do not have to do every single problem, but make sure to pay attention, learn the method to solve it, and do the ones he tells you to complete.
- Always complete the homework. If you get something wrong according to the answer key, try to see what you did wrong and redo the problem correctly.
- When you get to a review day, attempt every problem yourself then complete the homework.
- Take the tests seriously and don't cheat. Use them as a measure to see where your knowlege is at. Do not move on without feeling proficient at a topic.
- You may find a calculator useful for this course. [Desmos](https://www.desmos.com/calculator) is a good free graphing calculator.
- When you get to Basic Linear Algebra, complete everything under the [Matrices](https://greenemath.com/Precalculus.html#matrices-determinants) and [Vectors](https://greenemath.com/Precalculus.html#vectors) section on [Greene Math](https://greenemath.com/). That includes all the readings, videos, practice exams, and unit tests in each topic. When you're finished, you are done with Pre-College Math. Congratulations!
